---
layout: page
title: "About"
permalink: "/about/"
header:
    image_fullwidth: "header.jpg"
---
We came together in spring 2023 with two goals: We hope to challenge the growing influence of effective altruist (EA) and longtermist movements in academia and the unfounded hype around the emergence of 'general artificial intelligence' or 'super- intelligence' propagated by the dominant players in the tech-industry. Moreover, we provide and promote new technological (open source) solutions, different conceptions of digital technologies, and advice tailored to your and your communities' needs. We do not condone centralised, large-scale data mining. We also are skeptical of the development of large machine learning models as the basis of a new type of 'intelligence', as we see limited scientific value in such approaches and worry about their environmental impact. We do not fall for the broader ideological projects associated with EA: the idea that support should be directed to where it works most effectively and that, therefore, those with more power deserve more support, or that hypothetical people in the future are more important than all of us who live now. Moreover, we do not expect that a super-intelligence will emerge soon and threaten us or 'our' way of life. Instead, we want to shift the focus to current, concrete problems, affecting people and their communities now.

We plan to organise outreach activities towards academics, tech workers, and NGOs, as well as to the general public and to raise awareness about the spread of big tech-backed ideologies, and the harm of currently overhyped "intelligent" systems. In addition, we want to play a more practical role in empowering and supporting you - whether you are a community worker, small business owner, researcher, or anyone else trying to navigate the today's confusing technological world in an ethical and responsible way, by providing recommendations on open-source tools, supporting you with technological solutions that may provide answers to some of the problems you are facing, and helping you navigate the technological and ideological landscape Big Tech has created.

As we are a relatively young group, we also want to learn from you. While we hope to provide advice and technological solutions that are useful to you, analysing your needs, finding (technological) solutions that are sensitive to your concerns are far from trivial tasks. Hence, we see this as a process of mutual learning - to create better technologies for people we have to learn more about people and how they interact with society and technology. When it comes to technological solutions we are committed to careful, anti-oppressive and environmentally friendly or at least neutral advice and designs that help you understand the implications of using technology for yourself and the people you are serving.

Our team combines an understanding an intersectional and historical understanding of political and social challenges with technological expertise in computational linguistics, Web search, and open-source development.
