---
layout: page
title: "The Counter Cult People"
permalink: "/people/"
header:
    image_fullwidth: "header.jpg"
---
**Aurelie Herbelot:** Aurelie is a computational linguist and the CSO of [Possible Worlds Research](https://possible-worlds.eu/). Until 2023, she was assistant professor at the [Center for Mind/Brain Sciences](https://www.cimec.unitn.it/en) at the University of Trento, where she led the CALM research group (Computational Approaches to Language and Meaning). She received her PhD in Computer Science from the [University of Cambridge](https://www.cst.cam.ac.uk/) in 2010. As a researcher, Aurelie is foremost interested in semantics, that is, how humans and other intelligent beings generate meaning in the process of communicating, creating and understanding. However, she is also concerned with the politics and monopolistic tendencies of the digital technology industries. She strongly rejects movements such as effective altruism and longtermism, as well as the current hype around 'AI', which in her opinion misconstrues the abilities of both machine learning systems and human beings. She is instead dedicated to the development of open source tech that can be used and understood by anybody, regardless of their level of digitalisation and financial resources. She likes small and energy-efficient systems, and is an avid supporter of decentralisation. She is one of the main developers of the [PeARS search engine](https://github.com/PeARSearch).

**Gosse Minnema:** Gosse is a computational linguist in the final stages of obtaining his PhD from the University of Groningen (The Netherlands). His main interest is in using computational methods to better understand language and society, and to apply language technology in a socially-critical way. In particular, in the last years he has worked on developing techniques for making visible how media discourse reflects societal power relations, for example by implicitly de-responsibilizing perpetrators of gender-based violence and car drivers in traffic crashes, presenting such events as inevitable "tragedies" instead of as social injustice caused by humans. In years to come, he plans to further develop this type of research and also to contribute to the development of alternative NLP techniques that are privacy-friendly, environmentally sustainable, and cognitively transparent. For links to his recent work, see [his personal website](www.gossminn.eu). He is also active on Mastodon (@gossminn@mastodon.social) and Twitter/X (@gossminn), and you can learn more about the GroNLP group at the University of Groningen [here](https://www.rug.nl/research/clcg/research/cl/?lang=en). You can also follow the group on [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/GroNLP) and social media (@gronlp@sigmoid.social / @gronlp on Twitter/X).

**Amira Moeding:** Amira is a historian and philosopher currently writing an intellectual history of 'Big Data'and 'artificial intelligence' as their PhD research at the University of Cambridge. In their PhD, Amira hopes to provide a history of what we have come to call 'Big Tech' the digital tech industry, the industries intersections with state agencies, and how industry and state interests have shaped technologies promoted as ai. Amira is especially fascinated by the premise in much tech-discourse that everything can be recreated as data and that hence, brains and people can be uploaded to the cloud. Their background is in critical theory, and intersectional critiques of domination and power, as well as, analytical philosophy of science, and intellectual history. Amira's undergraduate and graduate research, before turning to histories of technology, was concerned with genealogies of race and racism and conceptions of humanity and human rights. However, they have worked in various positions before coming to Cambridge and never thought of their work as purely academic. Most recently Amira have worked with a social movement in Germany on refugee rights and migration policies. Amira would like to share their critical outlook and expertise on the history of 'Big Tech' and its intersections with political and philosophical movements. In addition, Amira is convinced that almost everybody can understand the basic workings of machine learning methods and neural networks and therefore, is happy to provide brief introductions into the basic principles of current ML methods. 


